Hello, everyone. So, today I'm gonna talk about the killing of Trayvon Martin by George Zimmerman.
But I feel like I need to explain myself and justify this a little before we get going here.
It'd be fair to ask, why now, five years later, do you wanna talk about this?
And the answer there is that I still believe it to be relevant.
The generalities of the incident, a black person, in this case Trayvon Martin,
is killed by a white person, in this case George Zimmerman,
in unclear or ambiguous circumstances.
And then later, the killer receives either no or relatively little legal punishment.
The names and the locations change, but the general outline remains the same.
And the feeling held by a lot of black people and more racially conscious people of other races
is that these people probably would not have been killed had they been white,
or if they had still been killed,
the justice system would have treated the killers much less leniently.
And this can be a hard thing to prove.
We're talking about certain likelihoods and probabilities,
subconscious or otherwise hidden biases,
and we don't have another America in which Trayvon Martin was a white teenager
walking home from the store to see what would have happened differently were that the case.
It's also easy to examine only the particulars of each incident in isolation,
and therefore avoid considering the overall trends.
Each case is easy to excuse if you're looking for excuses.
Trayvon Martin hit George Zimmerman, so Zimmerman was justified in defending himself.
Tamir Rice had a toy gun, and you know, that could have been mistaken for a real gun,
so, you know, therefore, etc.
There's always an excuse, however valid that excuse is,
with the cases that receive a lot of media attention.
A useful comparison here is the shooting of Levar Edward Jones.
Now, this shooting was not a particularly high-profile case.
A Google search for Levar Edward Jones only gives 1300 results,
compared to the 1.6 million for Trayvon Martin, for instance,
and I wouldn't be surprised if a lot of people hadn't heard of this shooting.
So, a very brief overview then.
On September the 4th of 2014,
South Carolina State Trooper Sean Grubert pulled up behind Levar Edward Jones
as he accessed his vehicle at a gas station.
Grubert asked Jones to get his license and registration,
and when Jones reached for them,
Grubert panicked and pulled his gun and fired several times,
hitting Jones in the hip.
Now, I'll link the video in the description and avoid showing it here,
but it's pretty much as I described.
So why didn't this case get as much media attention as some others?
Well, there's a few factors,
and they're all rather depressing to think about, to be honest.
The first is that there is a clear record of the incident.
It happened in plain sight in view of Grubert's dashcam.
The second is that the person who was shot survived
and could thus later argue their case.
And the third is that Grubert was very quickly fired,
arrested, and charged with felony assault and battery.
So there's very little to argue about this case.
It's clear-cut.
The person who was shot was entirely innocent,
the police officer was clearly in the wrong,
and that's the end of that.
You know, there's no excuse for that one.
And that's the important thing here,
there not being an excuse or a justification.
But let's imagine an alternate version of the shooting of Levar Edward Jones.
What if the gunshot had been fatal
and the person who was shot wasn't around to tell his side of the story?
And what if the dashcam had been angled slightly differently
or didn't pick up the incident?
Or, alternatively, what if the dashcam footage had been not so mysteriously lost?
Uh, well then the officer in this imaginary case
could have then said anything he liked to justify the shooting.
He looked dangerous, he said he was gonna kill me,
he grabbed for my gun, whatever, and there's the justification.
Now we see that blame is always individualized in these sorts of incidents.
The black person who was shot or killed is always considered at fault
up until it's an obvious and unavoidable fact that they were innocent.
Now, completely absent from this framework are societal factors
or racial biases or any sort of wider consideration of trends.
Only one person can be at fault.
It's either the person who was shot or the person who did the shooting,
and that's the end of that.
And so we come to the point of my video.
This video is aimed at people who might subconsciously even
reach for the easy excuse to justify these kinds of incidents.
Now, I don't think these people are capital R racists necessarily,
just that they might be harboring some biases that can be exposed
with a little effort and a bit of deeper thinking about the topic.
And we're gonna examine one case in particular, the shooting of Trayvon Martin.
We're gonna look at the various justifications given for Zimmerman's actions
and see if they hold water, and then afterwards I've come up with a clever way,
if I do say so myself, of proving that bias exists in reactions to cases like this.
So stick about if you want to see that.
My intention here is that by getting people to stop and think about just one case,
they might not be so quick to jump to conclusions for similar cases.
My hope is that this video can be linked to people who might try
to excuse the actions of George Zimmerman,
and hopefully they'll sit through it and maybe take a few points on board.
So okay, I'll start out here by giving an as-neutral-as-possible account of the incident.
On February 26th, 2012, Trayvon Martin,
who was visiting family at the Retreat at Twin Lakes in Sanford, Florida,
walked to a local store at about 7 p.m.
On his return from the store, he was spotted by George Zimmerman,
the organizer of the local neighborhood watch,
who mistook him for a criminal and called the police.
Zimmerman described Martin as looking as if he was up to no good and possibly on drugs.
After observing Martin for a time,
Zimmerman left his vehicle to continue to follow him when he moved out of sight.
This was followed by the police dispatcher asking Zimmerman if he was following Martin,
to which Zimmerman replied that he was.
The dispatcher then asked him not to do that.
Zimmerman was also armed with a 9mm handgun for which he had a concealed carry permit.
After being unable to locate Martin,
Zimmerman entered his call with the police dispatcher,
instructing them to call him back when an officer arrived on the scene.
Shortly after ending the call,
Zimmerman and Martin met at the top of the T-shaped intersection between the rows of houses.
A physical altercation ensued during which Zimmerman received a nosebleed
and some light abrasive wounds to the back of his head,
and Trayvon Martin was shot fatally in the chest.
Police arrived on the scene shortly thereafter.
So that's the basic outline of the events,
containing only the facts that are beyond dispute.
Of course, quite a few other things happened, or probably happened,
but those need to be talked about in more detail.
So what do we think about this incident?
Well, let me start by saying that I agree with Zimmerman being found not guilty at trial.
Now, that is not because I do not believe him to be at fault.
Because he was.
He definitely was.
But I believe he was overcharged.
Zimmerman was charged with second-degree murder,
which requires the prosecution to prove beyond the reasonable doubt
that Zimmerman intended to kill Trayvon Martin.
And without an eyewitness to the start of the physical altercation, as we'll see,
that is impossible to prove in court.
The start of the altercation is what is important here.
You see, the first justification for the shooting of Trayvon Martin
is that he injured Zimmerman,
and therefore Zimmerman could have reasonably feared for his life,
and thus was in the clear to defend himself.
Now, the problem with this argument is that
that same justification for Zimmerman's actions also works in reverse.
Trayvon Martin was also injured.
Much worse than Zimmerman, he was fatally injured,
and therefore, by the same logic,
he was legally in the clear to kill Zimmerman in self-defense as well.
So we're in a weird legal limbo here.
It certainly can't be the case that two people are just legally allowed to fight to the death
because they both fear for their own lives.
So what matters here is who initiated the physical altercation.
Without knowing that, Zimmerman's injuries could have been inflicted
by Trayvon Martin acting legally in self-defense.
And a lot of people who were outraged by this case
probably fought with some justification
that a stranger following you at night and chasing you down a dark alley
was itself enough to justify defending yourself physically.
As for actual hard courtroom evidence, though, we have relatively little to go on.
We have Zimmerman's account of the incident,
told through his written statement, his interviews with the police,
and a recorded walkthrough of the event conducted the following day.
But that is obviously not reliable by itself for what I hope are obvious reasons.
Also, Zimmerman provably lies at several times
during his recounting of the incident, which we'll get to shortly.
So without a witness to or recording of Zimmerman starting the fight,
and with no other indication that Zimmerman actually wanted to kill Martin,
there isn't really enough here for a murder conviction.
What you can prove is that Zimmerman was in the wrong at several points.
He was incorrect in his profiling of Martin as a criminal.
He was incorrect to leave his vehicle to pursue Martin.
He had several times acted recklessly and idiotically,
but that doesn't prove he actually wanted to murder Trayvon Martin.
And indeed, if we read the Sanford Police Department's report
after they eventually decided to recommend charging Zimmerman with something,
they said there is probable cause for charging Zimmerman with manslaughter,
stating,
"...the encounter between George Zimmerman and Trayvon Martin
was ultimately avoidable by Zimmerman.
If he had remained in his vehicle and awaited the arrival of law enforcement,
or conversely, if he'd identified himself to Martin as a concerned citizen
and initiated dialogue in an effort to dispel each party's concerns,
there is no indication that Trayvon Martin was involved in any criminal activity
at the time of the encounter."
And yes, the prosecutors would have had a much easier time proving manslaughter in court,
mainly because of all the aforementioned lies that Zimmerman can be shown to have told.
So, let's talk about some of those and also examine another anti-Treyvon Martin argument,
this one being that during the time Zimmerman was on the phone,
Trayvon Martin had enough time to get home to safety.
And people generally use this fact to suggest that since Trayvon Martin did not return home immediately,
he was therefore looking to ambush or otherwise confront Zimmerman.
Now, one can come up with several possible scenarios
for why Martin did not return home immediately.
Firstly, he was on the phone to a friend at the time,
so maybe he simply wanted to finish his conversation before reaching the house,
and so he paused early.
Secondly, maybe he was sufficiently freaked out by the strange guy who was following him around
and decided that leading that person to his house might be a bad idea.
Remember, Martin had no clue who Zimmerman was or why he was following him,
so that is another possible scenario.
These possibilities, though, are actually entirely unnecessary.
Let's go with the idea that Trayvon Martin did hide or even walked all the way home
before changing his mind and deciding he was gonna confront Zimmerman.
So he marched right back up the path with the intention of doing just that.
Now, the problem here is that confront does not mean attack,
and it certainly does not mean kill.
Martin does not know what's going on, remember.
He doesn't know that the police have been called,
or that Zimmerman has a gun, or that he's about to be shot with it.
He's under no legal responsibility to do anything in particular,
so long as he does not break the law.
He does not have to return home.
He can walk up and down the street all night if he likes,
and there's nothing illegal about approaching someone to ask why they're following you.
Criticizing Martin for not returning home immediately is cynically placing the blame on him
for not anticipating and avoiding his own killing.
Even if Martin did double back to confront Zimmerman,
that still tells us nothing about who initiated the physical confrontation.
Secondly here, this criticism of Martin's actions also applies equally,
or even more so, to Zimmerman.
The top of the T intersection is much closer to where Zimmerman's truck was parked
than where Trayvon Martin's house was,
and Zimmerman had the exact same amount of time to get back to his truck
if that's what he wished to do.
If you're going to criticize Trayvon Martin for still being present when Zimmerman got off the phone,
then you have to apply that criticism to Zimmerman also.
Unlike Martin, however, Zimmerman is still around to inform us
why he was still in the alley between the houses instead of back at his truck,
and his explanation for still being there, as it turns out, makes no sense whatsoever.
Firstly, let's go through the transcript of Zimmerman's call to the police
and highlight all the relevant information.
Then we'll look at Zimmerman's walkthrough of the events the next day
and compare the two accounts.
So, the relevant parts of the police call are as follows.
Firstly, Zimmerman gives the dispatcher the address of the clubhouse at Retreat View Circle.
Then later in the call, he gives the more precise location of his truck.
Go straight past the clubhouse, make a left, and then past the mailboxes.
That's where his truck was.
Then the dispatcher asks what address Zimmerman is parked in front of,
one time, and Zimmerman responds that he does not know.
And at the end of the call, the following exchange takes place.
The dispatcher asks Zimmerman if he wants to meet the police near the mailboxes
where his truck is, and Zimmerman agrees at first.
But then when the dispatcher attempts to confirm this meeting place,
Zimmerman changes his mind and says,
Now let's look at the recording of Zimmerman's reenactment to the incident for the police,
because there are a few key points where his account differs here.
At this interaction, where the dispatcher asks Zimmerman if he can get to somewhere
he can see Trayvon Martin is not in the transcript,
and is likely a later embellishment by Zimmerman to justify his continued following of Martin in his truck.
I saw him walking back that way and then cut through the back of the houses.
He looked back and he noticed me and he cut back through the houses.
I was still on the phone with non-emergency and then he came back and he started walking
up towards the grass and then came down and circled my car and I told the operator that
he was circling my car. I didn't hear if he said anything, but he had his hand in his waistband.
At this interaction, where Zimmerman observes Martin circle his truck and informs the operator
about it, is not present in the transcript. Zimmerman does mention that Martin is looking
at him at one point, but at no point mentions Martin circle the truck.
It's unlikely that Martin would have had enough time to do this in the brief time in the call
before Zimmerman left his truck, and also unlikely Zimmerman would not have mentioned it to the dispatcher.
This is likely a later embellishment in order to make Martin appear more threatening.
And I think I told the operator that and they said where are you?
And I could not remember the name of the street because I don't live on this street.
Retreat view circle goes in a circle. And I said I don't know and he goes we need an address.
And I said I don't know an address. I think I gave them my address. And they said give us
directions to get to you. And I said if you tell the police to go straight at the clubhouse and
make a left my truck will be there. And again they asked me where he went and what direction he went.
And I said I don't know. And then I thought to get out and look for a street sign.
So I got out of my car and I started walking.
Go ahead.
I was still on the phone with non-emergency and I started walking.
Okay.
And because I didn't see a street sign here but I knew if I went straight through that that's retreat view circle.
And I can give him an address. He said just give me the address of the house you're in front of.
And there's no address because this is the back of the house.
So it works here.
At firstly the dispatcher does not repeatedly ask for an address in the transcript.
This is a fabrication by Zimmerman in order to create a pretext for him to leave the car.
Secondly his described actions here make no sense.
I mean we're first expected to believe that a man who has lived in the neighborhood for several years
and is the self-appointed head of the neighborhood watch can't remember what street he's on in a
neighborhood with free streets. That seems rather unlikely to me but whatever.
Next up Zimmerman is parked on Twin Trees Lane and claims he can't give an address because he's
at the back of the houses. But as he's saying this we can see behind him some houses which do face
onto Twin Trees Lane. So his claim that he has to walk through to retreat view circle in order to
find an address is clearly incorrect. He could just look at the much closer houses that do
actually face onto Twin Trees Lane. So that's when I walked straight through here to get the address
so that I could meet the police officer and then they said uh I said he's not here they said do
you still want him to come and I said yes and they said where do you want him to come to and I said
you know what just tell him to meet me at my truck next to the clubhouse if you go straight
in through the clubhouse it makes a left I have a Honda original I'm silver Honda original I was
parked right there I'll meet him right there so I started walking back. This interaction in which
Zimmerman informs the dispatcher that he wants to meet the police by his truck is the actual
opposite of what appears in the transcript. The dispatcher is the one to suggest that and
Zimmerman instead proposes them calling him back to see where he is. This lie is also repeated in
one of the police interviews where Zimmerman claims the dispatcher asked where he wanted
to meet the police and he said at his car. So what does all this add up to? Well I think it's fairly
clear that all this rubbish about needing to find an address is an obvious fabrication. The dispatcher
already had an address they were directing police to and at no point asked Zimmerman to go walking
to find another one and even if they had done that there were much closer addresses available for
Zimmerman to go and check and even if Zimmerman had needed to walk through to retreat view circle
he lived on retreat view circle and I simply refused to believe that he forgot the name of his
own street and needed to go and physically look at a street sign to see where he was.
Now the probable truth is simply that Zimmerman was still looking for Trayvon Martin intending to
be the hero and catch the bad guy because quote these assholes always get away. Now Zimmerman also
tells several lies relating to the initial confrontation between him and Martin and let's
take a look at those. Firstly there is a major discrepancy in Zimmerman's story about the location
where he was knocked down by Martin. From his written statement he says as I headed back to
my vehicle the suspect emerged from the darkness and said you got a problem I said no the suspect
said you do now as I looked and tried to find my phone to dial 911 the suspect punched me in the
face I fell backwards onto my back the suspect got on top of me. So Zimmerman here makes it sound as
if he was immediately dropped by the first punch and this is echoed in his interview with the
police he punched me in the nose at that point I fell down were you still standing at this point
no ma'am okay I fell to the ground when he punched me the first time. So that's Zimmerman
restating and confirming that he fell at the first hit and here's why this makes no sense
if Zimmerman really was walking back to his truck from retreat view circle where he was apparently
looking for a street sign to tell him what the name of the street he lived on was called
and if he was doing that he would only need to walk across the top of the t intersection to get
back to the truck. Now the problem with this account is that Martin's body was found a few
houses down the path between the buildings here's a photograph taken from around the location where
Zimmerman first claimed he fell to the ground showing Martin's body in the distance. So what
does this mean? Well either Zimmerman's story about meeting Trayvon at the top of the intersection
is untrue and he was actually punched to the ground 40 feet down the path between the buildings
with no explanation of why he should be there or his story about being dropped with the first punch
is untrue because if he'd fell to the ground at the top of the intersection then Trayvon Martin's
body being found a few houses down the path makes no sense and let's watch Zimmerman realize in
real time that this aspect of his story is a load of old crap. He was about there but he was walking
towards me. Yes sir I believe like I said I was already past that so I didn't see exactly where
he came from but he was about where you were and I said I don't have a problem and I went to go grab
my cell phone but my I left it in a different pocket and I went I looked down in my hand pocket
and he said you got a problem now and then he was here and he punched me in the face right here
right around here okay to be honest I don't remember exactly that's why I think I stumbled
and I fell down he pushed me down somehow he got on top of me on the grass or on the snow
it was over more over towards here I think I was trying to push him away from me and then
he got on top of me somewhere around here and
Now all of this trying to push him away from me while moving down the path stuff is completely
absent from any of Zimmerman's earlier accounts of the incident and is also a bit suspect by
itself. If Zimmerman was trying to escape why didn't he go to the lit street where his truck
was? You know why instead move further down the dark path towards Trayvon Martin's house
incidentally? I don't know. It's a possibility obviously but the fact that Zimmerman neglected
to mention this in his written statement and police interviews and made it sound as though
he was knocked down immediately makes me doubt his story here. Zimmerman also undersells the
distance down the path that he fell to the ground. He moves to about the location of this tree but
we can see from the image that Martin's body was actually found about another house length past the
tree. Now okay it was dark and a traumatic experience so I can't expect Zimmerman to be
that accurate but it is still worth pointing out that Zimmerman's account in this recorded
walkthrough contradicts both his previous statements and the crime scene photographs.
So why would Zimmerman lie here? He asked with mock sincerity. Well obviously because he's trying
to give himself the best possible justification for his actions. Zimmerman's account includes
Martin being the first aggressor which is very important but also Martin explicitly telling
Zimmerman that he was going to kill him and then reaching for Zimmerman's gun and I mean why not
right? If you're the only witness to a shooting you committed you may as well make it airtight.
I'm surprised you didn't have Trayvon Martin say, I Trayvon Martin hereby pledge to kill you and
will do so shortly. This therefore gives you the full legal justification to respond with lethal
force and defense of your own life. I mean you know why not? Now the idea that Trayvon Martin
would at first run away from Zimmerman and then see red and decide to double back and actually
murder him strains belief somewhat. I mean I don't believe Zimmerman chased down Martin
intending to kill him in some racist rage but nor do I believe that Trayvon Martin while he was
still on the phone to a friend mind silently decided to double back and murder Zimmerman.
So what do we think actually happened? Well we're admittedly moving into the realm of speculation
here. I do have a theory of what was probably the most likely version of events and I'll give that
here for whatever good it's worth. So Zimmerman isn't looking for a street sign obviously and
nor is he intending to be where his truck currently is and we know that because of the
end of Zimmerman's police call. So he's still poking about looking for Martin, he doesn't want
this asshole to get away. Then him and Martin meet on the intersection behind the houses.
Zimmerman's friend who he was still on the phone with testified in court that at this point Martin
stated Zimmerman was still following him. So that backs up this theory of what Zimmerman was up to.
So let's get into Zimmerman's mindset here. He thinks Martin is a dangerous criminal suspect.
He's up to no good. He might be on drugs and Zimmerman states he's got his hand in his
waistband and later something's wrong with him. He's got something in his hands indicating he
thinks Martin might be armed. So then, you're in a dark alley and you're confronted by who you
suspect to be an armed and dangerous criminal who's on drugs. Now what would you do in that situation?
Well, Zimmerman claims he reached for his phone to dial 911. Now I don't buy this at all, you know,
excuse me Mr Dangerous Armed Criminal could you hold still for a few minutes while I call the
police on you right in front of you. No, that doesn't make any sense to me. What would make
sense to me in this situation is someone reaching for their gun. Now there's a few issues here.
Firstly, Florida is a concealed carry state and Zimmerman had a concealed carry permit.
Open carry is generally banned. Now if you're correct in your assessment of the person being
a dangerous armed criminal then of course you'd be in the right to reach for your gun to defend
yourself but if you later turned out to be wrong and your dangerous armed criminal turned out to
be an unarmed teenager walking home from the store then you're fucked because drawing, reaching for,
or flashing your gun would make you the aggressor and initiator of the physical confrontation and
then you're going to prison. So beyond my own estimation of what was the most likely series of
events, what evidence do I have that Zimmerman reached for his gun? Well, nothing that would
stand up in court admittedly but there is something else that leads me to believe that is what happened.
"...from but he was about where you were and I said I don't have a problem and I went to go grab
my cell phone but my I left it in a different pocket and I went I looked down in my hand pocket
and he said you got a problem now and then he was here and he punched me in the face."
So Zimmerman here indicates that he tried to find his phone to call 911 but he had moved his phone
to a different pocket and looks down to his right side to indicate that's where he reached for it
and this is significant because this is also the area of his body where his gun was.
"...but uh that's when my jacket moved up and I had my my firearm on my right side hit."
Now according to Zimmerman he had only just got off the phone with the non-emergency police line
so he had just put his phone away only a few moments ago according to his timeline
and now he suddenly can't remember where it is. So Zimmerman, when confronted by who he thinks
is a dangerous armed criminal in a dark alley, coincidentally reaches to check for his phone
in the right side pocket where his gun happens to be. I don't know, it is possible but it's
awfully convenient and now you might be thinking why would Zimmerman bother to lie about this?
He's the only living witness to the start of the fight so he can make up whatever story he likes
and the answer there is that Zimmerman at this point knew there was a witness to the incident
but didn't have any indication how much of the event they had actually been witnessed to.
From Zimmerman's interview with the police on the night of the shooting he says
Then somebody comes out and I couldn't see. There was a flashlight in my head so I asked if it was
a police officer and he said no it was a witness but he was calling the police and I said the
police are on their way. So present in Zimmerman's mind during the police walkthrough is the existence
of a witness who could have possibly seen any part of the event which means he needs to account for
his actions including that of reaching for his gun. So that's why his phone goes missing only
seconds after he put it away and why he not so coincidentally reaches to that area of his body
right before Martin hits him. So actually Zimmerman faced with what he incorrectly
thought was a dangerous criminal reached for his gun and Trayvon Martin chased down an alley by
a stranger who then reached for his gun defended himself. Is that what happened? Well probably we
can't know for sure. There was actually no witness to the start of the fight no CCTV footage and that
series of events while likely wouldn't stand up in court. I haven't proved anything there and that's
because it's impossible to prove. Zimmerman should never have been charged with something that it was
impossible to prove in court and I'd like to highlight something here in conclusion to this
section. I just talked about the Trayvon Martin case without once descending into the ridiculous
character assassinations that were rampant in the American media during the trial. Trayvon Martin
smoked weed you know the drug that notoriously makes people really angry and confrontational.
Trayvon Martin posted a photograph of a gun on social media that's apparently more of an
indication of violent tendencies than owning carrying and actually shooting someone with a gun.
Now this is the other tactic for justifying Zimmerman's actions saying Trayvon was obviously
a bad guy since he did x or y common teenage activity and that's just disgusting and shameful
behavior to be honest. Until the legal punishment for skipping school or smoking weed or whatever
is the death penalty people can stuff those sorts of justifications right up their back holes.
So anyway what I hope I have proved during that little analysis of the Trayvon Martin case
is that there is no avenue whatsoever for laying blame upon Trayvon Martin and again in summary
any injury Zimmerman sustained could have been perfectly legally inflicted. Unless you have
evidence that Trayvon Martin started the fight Zimmerman's injuries are no justification.
Trayvon Martin still being between the houses and not returning home is also no justification.
Zimmerman also had no reason to be there and even if Martin did confront Zimmerman
that doesn't prove who initiated the physical confrontation which is the important thing.
There is nothing you can accuse Martin of that is not also true of Zimmerman and so the most
pro-Zimmerman position I will accept as legitimate here is one of complete neutrality. The only
logical explanation I have for explaining why people would actually openly justify Zimmerman's
actions is because they are racially biased whether consciously or not. Absolutely none of
the evidence implicates Martin as doing anything illegal at any point other than the testimony of
a man who has an enormous incentive to lie and thus whose account cannot be trusted. If you
favor Zimmerman's account of the incident you are by process of elimination either a fool or racially
biased. Now I stated earlier that I could prove that a racial bias exists in the response to
cases like this and so let's take a look at that and for this last section of the video we need to
know about the shooting of Lavoie Finicum. So on January 2nd 2016 an armed group led by Ammon Bundy
of the 2014 Bundy standoff seized and occupied the National Wildlife Refuge in Harney County in
Oregon. They did this for some stupid reason whatever it doesn't matter. On January 26th
two trucks carrying Ammon Bundy, Lavoie Finicum and others left the refuge to travel to a meeting
in an adjacent county and the FBI used this opportunity to intercept the trucks and arrest
the group. One truck stopped but the other of which Lavoie Finicum was the driver led the
police on a high-speed chase with Lavoie Finicum shouting that the only way the police could stop
him was to shoot him. A mile down the road Finicum's truck encountered an FBI roadblock
where he crashed left the truck armed with a gun and approached police who fatally shot him.
Now whatever you think about the legitimacy of the police shooting of Lavoie Finicum the facts
are that he was involved in an armed takeover and occupation of a government building led the
police on a high-speed chase told the police he wouldn't stop until he was killed and crashed
his car at a police roadblock and then approached them armed with a gun and it really is amazing
what you have to do to get the police to shoot you if you're an older white guy in a cowboy hat
and all of this was recorded by both a police helicopter and camera footage from inside the
truck and I want to make clear here that I'm not celebrating or laughing about the man's death in
any way but it was entirely avoidable by him. For the other truck that stopped when the police asked
all occupants were arrested peacefully. Lavoie Finicum did not have to die and it was clearly
his own actions that brought about his shooting. So why am I telling you about this incident? Well
it serves as a very useful comparison to the shootings of various young black men including
Trayvon Martin because thanks to the permanent record of the internet it means that I get to do
this. Keith Roadbush on twitter says Finicum was simply murdered by scared cops who don't know how
to handle it when someone else is armed and trained. Finicum never hurt anyone. For Trayvon
Martin however, Keith says my solemn prayer is that Trayvon will serve to teach young black
Americans the thug-like gang-banging stealing and dope-smoking life is futile. Holly Ammon on
twitter says an innocent man was gunned. Lavoie Finicum did nothing wrong. These men, all of them,
did nothing wrong. Yeah other than occupy a federal building and lead the police on high
speed chase, Holly. For Trayvon Martin however, Holly says Trayvon was just a big black thug.
BlueVino on twitter says it's kind of rude to forget that Lavoie Finicum was shot and killed
while unarmed. In actuality it's kind of rude to forget that he was really armed with a gun.
BlueVino. Anyway for Trayvon Martin, BlueVino says the death was Trayvon's fault for attacking.
Trayvon had no right to attack. Trayvon initiated violence. Waifu Kaori says one confirmed dead
Lavoie Finicum hold these people accountable. Should we also hold George Zimmerman accountable
though? Apparently not. The hero George Zimmerman is going to donate money from his gun auction to
fight the Black Lives Matter terrorists. What a great man. Ginger Merritt on twitter says
Lavoie Finicum was murdered in cold blood and then quotes a bible passage. For Trayvon Martin
however, she says God protected someone Trayvon Martin would have assaulted. So God works in
mysterious and apparently racially biased ways it seems. D. Claire Diane claims Lavoie Finicum
was murdered in the first degree but elsewhere states Trayvon Martin was a black thug. And it
goes on, you get the point. And you can compare the shooting of the armed Lavoie Finicum to other
shootings of unarmed black people as it turns out. At Radical RW on twitter says Lavoie Finicum was
murdered in the first degree but for the case of Tamia Rice, the 12 year old shot by police while
playing in a park, they say some idiot pulled a fake gun on a cop and got shot. What did he
think would happen? Radical RW doesn't bother asking what Lavoie Finicum thought would happen
when he ran a police roadblock however. There can be no explanation for this obvious contradiction
in reactions except for racial bias. When an armed white criminal is considered less dangerous than
an unarmed black teenager, what other explanation could there possibly be? So don't be like these
people I guess is my point. Don't go for the easy excuse. Put some thought into your opinions and
also consider why you hold those opinions that you do. Now I intentionally called George Zimmerman
white in the first minute of this video and I did that for a reason. One point that was repeated
constantly during the trial was that Zimmerman was not white, he's hispanic and therefore this
isn't a white black race thing you know. Which is pretty racist in itself to be honest but I called
Zimmerman white because that is what he himself identifies as. He says he's white in the police
interviews because of course hispanic isn't a skin color. You can have white hispanic people and
black hispanic people and whatever else. Claiming Zimmerman to be hispanic not white portrays an
ignorance both of the facts of the case and of the relevant racial terminology. So I called
Zimmerman white early on deliberately to trip up any youtube commenters who don't listen to
arguments and don't watch the whole video. So anyone who comments Zimmerman was actually hispanic
haha you're wrong beneath this video I'm here preemptively shaming you. Thanks a lot for
watching everyone. Another day, another depressing video. I apologize. I have one about the British
Empire in the works. I'm sure that's not going to be too cheery either. Maybe eventually I'll run out
of darker topics and we can talk about something pleasant for a change. Wouldn't that be nice?
Thanks as always to all my patrons scrolling by right now who enable me to keep making videos
like this one so if you want more videos like this consider sending me a dolly yourself and
also maybe check out the other creators that I personally support on patreon all of whom are
very interesting folks who create awesome things and are definitely worth having a p-cat also also
follow me on twitter and send me a curious cat question if you like I try to answer at least
some of them rightio thanks folks I'll see you soon